Creole Forth for Excel Quick Intro and Cheat Sheet

Q: What is Creole Forth for Excel? (Creole for short)

A: A simple scripting/macro language written in VBA for Excel based on the Forth language.

Q: What is Forth? 

Forth is a stack-oriented language primarily known for programming hardware and embedded systems. It's 
distinguished by its simple postfix syntax, passing of parameters via a stack, and miniscule size and 
use of resources.    

A: How does Creole work?
1. A set of space-delimited values (words) is placed in an input-cell.
2. One by one, they're looked up in a dictionary.
3. If found, they're executed.
4. If not, they're pushed onto the data stack. 

Q: What version of Excel should I be using?

A: It should be backward compatibile to version 2003.

Q: How do I run my first program?
A: 
1. Open up the CFExcel1.xls workbook. 
2. Make sure macros are enabled.
3. The keyboard shortcut Ctrl-Shift-C sets up a Forth bundle (Forth environment) for the workbook.
You will see two sheets that weren't there before: one with a GlobalDS label and the 
other with a Dictionary label. 
4. Go to the GlobalDS sheet.
5. In the cell in the input area, enter two words: HELLO WORLD
6. Two dialog boxes will pop up : the first says "Hello" and the second says "World"

Q: That seems awfully simple. Can't it do more?

A: Yes. Enter the following code into the InputArea cell and click the submit button:
: SQR DUP Nx ; 

This will compile the SQR definition into the dictionary. To execute it, type the
following:
2 SQR

You will see the number 4 on the data stack. 

Q: That still seems awfully simple.

A: Perhaps, but it's already demonstrated one of the ways you can improve and extend the Creole Forth environment.
There are several ways to extend the language but we'll mention two for starters:
1. By creating additional "primitives". A primitive consists of a VBA class method that is defined in one of the class modules
   attached to the spreadsheet. It must then be introduced into the Dictionary page via the BuildPrimitive method. 
2. By adding high-level definitions. This is generally done through the colon compiler. Its job is to compile assemblages
   of previously defined "words" or definitions. These behave as extensions to the language and are functionally indistinguishable 
   from lower level (primitive definitions). 

Q: How do I remove a Forth bundle?

A: Ctrl-Shift-R. The CreoleForthInitPage will remain behind. It (the init page) does not really need to be removed. 
Its purpose is to allow multiple Forth Bundles to coexist in the same workbook. 

List of shortcuts and commands
------------------------------
Ctrl-Shift-C : Sets up default Forth Bundle, which consists of a GlobalDS page and a Dictionary page.
Most of the time, you're only going to need one bundle. 
Ctrl-Shift-R : Removes default Forth Bundle
Ctrl-Shift-D : Removes a selected data structure cell. Make sure you do not obliterate its "marker".
The marker is a named range that keeps track of the data structure depth. 
Push button : Put a value in the Scratch cell,  and press the Push button. The value will be placed on
top of the DataStack.
Submit button : Submits code in the InputAea.
Clean up stacks button: Push it and it will empty the DataStack. Right now, that's the only stack it
cleans up. 
